Testing is an important concept in programming although we start off writing a simple script digest
file with a few lines of code.
When we start getting into the Briere world you start getting thousands and millions of line of code
hundreds of JavaScript files files worked on by many people from different divisions in a company and
most likely all of them starting a different time at the company.
All the code changes happening over time at different times as people work on the project as the complexity
of the code and the size of the code increases it becomes harder and harder for someone to fix a bug
that may arise if you come into a project that has been around for years.
You may modify something that may modify another part of the app that you didn't think of and you start
creating all these bugs with new features that you introduce into the app.
The longer that code stays in a project the more likely it is to be touched by different developers.
So you see the problem here.
For companies this is a huge problem because you're most likely always growing your product and adding
more and more lines of code.
That means that there's just going to keep making this giant monster that becomes harder and harder
to tame and bugs costs companies a lot of money luckily for us we have something called testing which
can help us solve this problem.
As the name suggests testing is a method in software development where individual units of source code
assets or programs are tested to see whether they work properly although it may not be a big part of
a coding interview.
When you first get started it is a big part of any major software company that you work for.
For example in my case when I first started out as a developer I didn't know that much about testing
and I got hired without knowing much about testing but the importance of testing grew more and more
as I progressed in my career and it's one of those things that we often overlook and a lot of junior
developers overlook.
But if you want to become a senior developer and if you want to have a long lasting career you really
need to master the skill remember every serious company is going to have tests and they will want you
to write tests for your code.
So how can we do this.
Well a test is simply a another file in your project.
This file never runs in production or on a product Web site.
Instead it runs in development.
It's a file that you run to make sure before you released to production that what you just have written
works as intended.
Now the best way to show you how it works is to demonstrate a test for you.
So let's go to our robo friends at I have the robo friends up here.
But I've included a few test just to demonstrate for you how it works.
And by the end of this section you're going to be able to write these as well.
And we're going to write them together.
But if I run NPM run test again a command that comes with create react up.
Let's see what happens I get a a few things saying that no tests found related file fall changes since
last commit because I've already run the test but if I press a
Did you catch the we have six test suites 16 Tests and five snapshots that past.
All right.
What does this all mean and what do all these components have the dot test dot J.S. file in here.
I see a lot of green which is probably good but what does this all mean and don't worry from here we're
going to unpack it and see how everything works.
We're going to learn about what tools we need what tools we're going to use and how we can become testing
ninjas.
By the way you may hear the term TDD or test driven development that is the idea of writing tests even
before you actually write your application code so that you start writing code based on the tests that
you provide.
And some people really love this way of working and you can read up on it and decide for yourself if
this is something you would want to try up now to get back to the point
we are humans and as humans we make mistakes.
It's unavoidable as an application grows.
It is impossible to think of all cases in your code and have all the if statements that take care of
all use cases especially not from the very beginning although adding tests will definitely decrease
our development speed.
Since now we're writing more code just for tests in the long run.
If your project is of a certain size it's always better to write tests because you avoid bugs in the
long term.
All right.
In this section we're going to learn all about it.
As always we're going to go through some core concepts and build our foundation and then we're going
to get to coding some of our own tests.
Let's get started.